T oron and Gown. 55

all the churches the form of excommunication with
lighted candles and bells solemnly tolling. The King,
in answer to the appeal of the University, granted an
important charterol privilege.' Is any offence should
be committed in future by a scholar, inquisition should
be made by adjacent villages as well as by Oxford
burghers. If a scholar should be slain by any ol the
burghers, the whole commonalty oi Oxford should be
punished lor it; burghers should answer lor their
families, is any member should injure a scholar. The
interest on loans by Jews to scholare was limited to
two pence in a seven night, ior the use of one pound.
The Chancellor should in future have the right to
attend when the quality of bread and ale in the
market was assayed by the Mayor.

In1255 a charter granted by the King at Woodstock
increased the staff os city officials by four aldermen and
eight associates. No regrators were allowed to buy
any victuals in or about the town, as they were brought
thither, nor buy anything and sell it again before nine
in the morning. If any layman inflicted serious in·
jury onascholar,he should be committed to the castle‚
there to wait till satisfaction be made to the party
wronged according to the judgment of the Chancellor;
ii, however, the citizen be merely ‘saucy and forward'
and the injury small, he should be imprisoned in the
town gaol. If a clerk seriously injured a layman, he
should be imprisoned in the castle until the Chancellor
released ,him ; il the offence be slight, he should be

 

